---
layout: post
title: the wasps
item: thiswaspunk
support: lp
category: eps
tag: soldout
volume: 4
image: F0chhamVB0Dg
---

Formed in February 1976 The Wasps were one of London&rsquo;s earliest punk bands. They were regulars at The Roxy, The Bridge House etc. and soon built a large following.

In November 1977 their first single &lsquo;Teenage Treats&rsquo; was released on the 4-Play label. Reviewed in the NME as &quot;great single&quot; by Bob Geldof, the single is a marvellous example of &rsquo;77 punk rock and now highly collectable. A month later, The Wasps appeared on the &lsquo;Live At The Vortex&rsquo; album. Recorded in October &rsquo;77 their track &lsquo;Can&rsquo;t Wait &lsquo;Till &lsquo;78&rsquo; was chosen as the lead track for a split single with Mean Streets who included a young Gary Numan! In mid &rsquo;78 the band played a gig at The Bells in Kings Cross, London. During their set a fan was set upon by over zealous bouncers who thought he&rsquo;d let off a firework, beat him up and he consequently died. Their snd 7&rdquo; &lsquo;Rubber Cars&rsquo; was released to much acclaim and a TV company wanted to make an animated series based upon the band. Suddenly The Wasps were hot property and former managers filed writs causing RCA to pull the plug on &lsquo;Rubber Cars&rsquo;, despite it being RCA&rsquo;s biggest selling single of the week! The disappointment and the legal problems caused the band to split. Yeah! Finally on vinyl the anthology of all their tracks!!!