---
layout: post
title: the brats
item: rock candy
support: lp
category: aher
tag: soldout
volume: 3
image: E7NRGwybonjs
---

After the compilation of Whiplash material released by Rave Up in 2003, is finally available the legendary 1975 'lost album' all recorded in studio!

Yes... that's true!!! This is one of the biggest 'shot' of your fave retro-label!!!! Rave Up is prod to presents 'Rock Candy'... 16 amazing tracks, one of the best rock'n'roll vinyl releases of the year!!!! Before there was KISS, before there were The Ramones and Blondie, there was The Brats. The Brats and The New York Dolls were at the forefront of the NYC music scene of the Seventies. Brat, Rick Rivets, actually quit The Dolls to form The Brats. The Brats would become the biggest draw in NYC from 1972 to 1981 and every band hoped to open for them for the exposure. Just ask any one of the members of KISS or The Ramones (“Beat on The Brat!”) or any other NYC band for that matter, The Brats were a big influence on them and the whole NYC music scene of the Seventies. Their story begins one night while hanging out with Alice Cooper downstairs at Max's, Keith West and the boys were giving the waitress a hard time. Alice leaned over and said “You guys are a bunch of Brats” and they took him literally. Early on, The Brats rehearsed in a loft on Bleecker Street, where they would stage their infamous loft parties, often with an then unsigned band, KISS, as their opening act. They headlined all over the New York City area with other up and coming bands like Blondie, The Ramones, Television, Talking Heads and The Heartbreakers. They would often be featured in Rock Scene Magazine, which gave them international exposure and helped to sell out shows at places like Max’s, CBGB’s, Gildersleeves, and The Ritz. Pure powerful and exciting NYC rock and roll!! BE FAST TO GRAB THIS ALBUM, 'cause it will be sold out in few days!!!!