---
layout: post
title: the punks
item: definitive collection
tag: new
support: dlp
category: aher
volume: 05
outdate: JANUARY 2018
image: e8bb5a9e2c68ef899a79b135952ff8ff
#focus:
#  name: october 2015 news!
#  description: OUT october 10<sup>th</sup> 2015
---

The Punks were an American proto punk band from Wateford, Michigan from near Detroit, who were active from 1973-1977.

They specialized in a hard-driving, sometimes thrashing sound that anticipated much mid-to-late 1970s punk rock and 1980s hardcore. The group came out of the last vestiges of the Detroit rock scene that produced bands such as MC5, Stooges, and Death, and with these acts they formed a musical bridge between the garage bands of the 1960s and the later punk movement that emerged in New York and London during the mid-1970s.
In 1977 they changed their name to the End and moved to New York with hopes of making their mark in the burgeoning punk rock scene there, but were unsuccessful, and broke up shortly thereafter. Though relatively unknown outside of Detroit and New York in their day, they have more recently garnered the interest and accolades of underground rock enthusiasts who consider them to be pioneers in the prototypical development of punk rock. Parts of their song "My Time's Comin'" were used in the soundtrack of two March 2016 episodes of the television series, Vinyl co-created the Rolling Stones’ Mick Jagger and director Martin Scorsese. This double anthology contains the first Rave Up album, long time out of print, and a great all studio unreleased material 2nd lp. Don't miss the chance to grab the definitive collection of this essential band.

> Ltd. 500 copies